{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16180\viewh12020\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Process \
I began with the intention of using a basic grid format for my clock design, but then opted for a traditional analog timepiece in the belief it would be easier to read. After then consulting with Professor Swinehart, I realized that a grid-based clock would be simpler to code.\
\
Japan Circle Clock\
My first sketch used Japan\'92s flag as a basis for an analog clock, with the center represented by a white circle and the hour and minute hands represented by gray and white circles. The Bertin-ian Retinal Variables employed are position, size, shape and color. \
\
Wave Clock 1.0\
This clock is inspired by a renovated garage on the Lower East Side (see photo), which has a wave-like quality to its facade. I felt a  wave motion  could be mimicked to indicate the passage of time, and created a sketch in which hours, seconds and minute lines drop down from right to left. The Bertin-ian Retinal Variables employed are position, size, shape and color. \
\
Wave Clock 2.0\
I attempted to normalize the values to equal the standard 24, 60, 60, values of hours, minutes and seconds. This resulted in a vertical screen meaning further experimentation is necessary to achieve a horizontal aspect ratio, which I feel will better convey the wave motion. I also changed the wave flow from right to left in keeping with the standard motion of the eye (for most Westerners), and changed the color scheme to a grayscale closer to the garage. The Bertin-ian Retinal Variables employed are position, size, shape and value. Compared to sketching on the computer, coding the design should allow for simpler normalization of time values on the canvas in future iterations. \
 }